README.md, before:

# Text Adventure Game Parser

## Foreword
This is a final project from Fall 2018 that I proposed and developed based on a research paper to learn NLP. It used to be a 700-line Jupyter notebook, but now it's been refactored for my Github. It showcases how I simplified a complex problem and dealt with coding a large system. This project also shows how I handled working with a open-source API where the documentation did not match the newest release.

## Project Description
The goal of my project was to design a neural network that could play text adventure games. Text adventure games are games where a description of what is happening is provided via text. For example, a starting scenario could be “You are trapped in a room. There is a key on the table.” To progress in the game, the player would have to input commands such as “take key” or “unlock door”. Since all gameplay is done via text, I thought it would be the perfect way to learn about natural language processing.

Instead of creating a fully autonomous agent that could play text adenture games all by itself, I simplfied my goal into parsing the instructions scraped from the generated game and predicting the correct commands. I viewed this as a translation problem, so I decided to apply an encoder-decoder neural network.

## Project Implementation Details

Can be found [here](src/README.md).

## Dependencies

* Microsoft TextWorld: A open-source engine for generating text adventure game scenarios by Microsoft Research. I used the version available on Github on 12/18/2018. This is used only by the scraping script.
* Pytorch: Open source machine learning library
* Matplotlib: Used to compare hyperparameter effects on the loss functions by viewing graphs.

## How to run

Run the scraper by generating games using TextWorld and storing the data in text files.

```
python3 src/collect.py
```

Run the neural network with multiple hyperparameter configurations, which will produce graphs.

```
python3 src/main.py
```

## Results

After trying numerous hyperparameters for training, the best accuracy I achieved was 38.54%. All my results can be found in the graphs folder under the images folder, where it shows loss for each cycle.

| Hyperparameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Embedding Dimension | 100 |
| Hidden State Dimension | 1000 |
| Learning Rate | 0.001 |
| Loss Function | Binary Cross-Entropy |
| Loss Factor | 10000 |
| Training Cycles | 100 |

<a href="url"><img src="https://github.com/asannasi/txt_adv_nlp/blob/master/images/graphs/best.png" align="center" height="300" width="500" ></a>

## Sources
* https://arxiv.org/pdf/1705.05637.pdf
* Pytorch documentation
* https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/seq2seq_translation_tutorial.html
* https://bastings.github.io/annotated_encoder_decoder/
* https://github.com/Microsoft/TextWorld
* https://arxiv.org/pdf/1806.11532.pdf
* https://textworld-docs.maluuba.com/textworld.generator.game.html

Commit message:

Updated README with sample result and extensions

README.md, after:

# Text Adventure Game Parser

## Foreword
This is a final project from Fall 2018 that I proposed and developed based on a research paper to learn NLP. It used to be a 700-line Jupyter notebook, but now it's been refactored for my Github. It showcases how I simplified a complex problem and dealt with coding a large system. This project also shows how I handled working with a open-source API where the documentation did not match the newest release.

## Project Description
The goal of my project was to design a neural network that could play text adventure games. Text adventure games are games where a description of what is happening is provided via text. For example, a starting scenario could be “You are trapped in a room. There is a key on the table.” To progress in the game, the player would have to input commands such as “take key” or “unlock door”. Since all gameplay is done via text, I thought it would be the perfect way to learn about natural language processing.

Instead of creating a fully autonomous agent that could play text adenture games all by itself, I simplfied my goal into parsing the instructions scraped from the generated game and predicting the correct commands. I viewed this as a translation problem, so I decided to apply an encoder-decoder LSTM neural network.

## Project Implementation Details

Can be found [here](src/README.md).

## Dependencies

* Microsoft TextWorld: A open-source engine for generating text adventure game scenarios by Microsoft Research. I used the version available on Github on 12/18/2018. This is used only by the scraping script.
* Pytorch: Open source machine learning library
* Matplotlib: Used to compare hyperparameter effects on the loss functions by viewing graphs.

## How to run

Run the scraper by generating games using TextWorld and storing the data in text files.

```
python3 src/collect.py
```

Run the neural network with multiple hyperparameter configurations, which will produce graphs.

```
python3 src/main.py
```

## Results

After trying numerous hyperparameters for training, the best accuracy I achieved was 38.54%. All my results can be found in the graphs folder under the images folder, where it shows loss for each cycle.

| Hyperparameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Embedding Dimension | 100 |
| Hidden State Dimension | 1000 |
| Learning Rate | 0.001 |
| Loss Function | Binary Cross-Entropy |
| Loss Factor | 10000 |
| Training Cycles | 100 |

<a href="url"><img src="https://github.com/asannasi/txt_adv_nlp/blob/master/images/graphs/best.png" align="center" height="300" width="500" ></a>

Here is a sample result from my best trained model:

![](images/sample_result.png)

## Future Extensions

1. Implement a decoder with attention built in. The OOP in my code would make this easy to incorporate.
2. Use pretrained word2vec embedding weights so that my synonyms are more accurate
3. Change the number of layers in my LSTM’s. Currently, I’m using one layer, but maybe my accuracy will improve if I use more. It might also increase if I use bidirectional LSTM’s. 
4. Using a bigram model. A lot of commands are phrases in the form of “take item.” With a bigram model, the network can differentiate between nouns and verbs and construct phrases. Outputs like “take take” would become less likely. 

## Sources
* https://arxiv.org/pdf/1705.05637.pdf
* Pytorch documentation
* https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/seq2seq_translation_tutorial.html
* https://bastings.github.io/annotated_encoder_decoder/
* https://github.com/Microsoft/TextWorld
* https://arxiv.org/pdf/1806.11532.pdf
* https://textworld-docs.maluuba.com/textworld.generator.game.html
